1. Install Azure CLI:
curl -sL https://aka.ms/InstallAzureCLIDeb | sudo bash 
 -> Command is used to install the Azure CLI on a Debian-based Linux distribution. It retrieves the installation script from https://aka.ms/InstallAzureCLIDeb and pipes it to the bash command with superuser (sudo) privileges.

2. Check Azure CLI version:
az --version 
 -> Command displays the version of the Azure CLI installed on your system. After installing the Azure CLI, you can verify the installation by running 

3. Build a Docker image
docker build -t tracker-app-image . 
 -> Command is used to build a Docker image named "tracker-app-image" from the current directory (.). The Dockerfile present in the current directory defines the instructions for building the image.

4. Run a Docker container
docker run --name tracker -d -p 80:80 tracker-app-image
 -> Command creates a Docker container named "tracker" using the "tracker-app-image" image. The container is detached (-d flag), and port 80 of the container is mapped to port 80 of the host machine (-p 80:80).

5.Log in to Azure:
az login 
 -> To interact with Azure resources using the Azure CLI, you need to log in. The command initiates the login process. It may open a browser window for authentication or provide a code that you need to enter on the Azure login page.

6. Create a resource group:
az group create --name trackerappgroup --location westeurope 
 -> Command creates a resource group named "trackerappgroup" in the "westeurope" region. A resource group is a logical container that holds related Azure resources.
 
7. Create an Azure Container Registry (ACR).
az acr create --resource-group trackerappgroup --name trackerappcrbigdo --sku Basic 
 ->
--resource-group: Specifies the name of the resource group in which the ACR will be created. In this case, it is trackerappgroup.
--name: Specifies the name of the Azure Container Registry. Here, it is trackerappcr.
--sku: Specifies the SKU (pricing tier) of the ACR. The value Basic is provided in this command, which represents the Basic pricing tier.

8. Log in to an Azure Container Registry (ACR)
az acr login --name trackerappcrbigdo
 -> Command will log you into the Azure Container Registry named trackerappcrbigdo, allowing you to authenticate and access the container images stored in that registry.

9. ACR in a tabular format
az acr show --name trackerappcrbigdo --query loginServer --output table
 -> Command will display the login server URL for the ACR named trackerappcrbigdo in a tabular format. The login server URL is the endpoint you will use when interacting with the ACR, such as pushing or pulling container images.
 
10. Assigns the new tag 
docker tag tracker-app-image trackerappcrbigdo.azurecr.io/racker-app-image:v1
 -> Command assigns the new tag v1 to the tracker-app-image image and associates it with the ACR named trackerappcrbigdo. The resulting tagged image will be trackerappcrbigdo.azurecr.io/tracker-app-image:v1.
 
 
 11.
 trackerappcrbigdo.azurecr.io/racker-app-image:v1
 
 12.
 az acr repository list --name trackerappcrbigdo

13.
az container create --resource-group trackerappgroup --name trakerapp --image trackerappcrbigdo.azurecr.io/racker-app-image:v1 --cpu 1 --memory 1 --registry-login-server trackerappcrbigdo.azurecr.io --registry-username trackerappcrbigdo --ip-address Public --dns-name-label trackerappdnsbigdo --ports 80

14.
we have domain and ip addres and can got ower app in there: 	
 "fqdn": "trackerappdnsbigdo.westeurope.azurecontainer.io",
    "ip": "20.103.213.100",


15.
→ az container show --resource-group trackerappgroup --name trakerapp --query instanceView.state

16.
az container show --resource-group trackerappgroup --name trakerapp --query ipAddress.fqdn

17.
az container logs --resource-group trackerappgroup --name trakerapp

18.
az group delete --resource-group trackerappgroup 



